README.md, before:

# Thermal Neural Networks
This repository demonstrates the usage of thermal neural networks (TNNs) on an electric motor data set.

The TNN is introduced in:
```
@misc{kirchgässner2021_tnn_preprint,
  title={Thermal Neural Networks: Lumped-Parameter Thermal Modeling With State-Space Machine Learning}, 
  author={Wilhelm Kirchgässner and Oliver Wallscheid and Joachim Böcker},
  year={2021},
  eprint={2103.16323},
  archivePrefix={arXiv},
  primaryClass={cs.LG}
}
```

Further, this repository supports and demonstrates the findings around a TNN's generalization to [Neural Ordinary DIfferential Equations](https://arxiv.org/abs/1806.07366) as presented on [IPEC2022](https://www.ipec2022.org/index.html). (citation t.b.a.)

The data set is freely available at [Kaggle](https://www.kaggle.com/wkirgsn/electric-motor-temperature).

## Topology

![](img/topology.png)

Three function approximators (e.g., multi-layer perceptrons (MLPs)) model the thermal characteristics of an arbitrarily complex component arrangement forming a system of interest.
One outputs thermal conductances, another the inverse thermal capacitances, and the last one the power losses generated within the components.

In contrast to other neural network architectures, a TNN needs at least to know which features are temperatures and which are not.
The TNN's inner cell working is that of [lumped-parameter thermal networks](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lumped-element_model#Thermal_systems) (LPTNs).
A TNN can be interpreted as a hyper network that is parameterizing an LPTN, which in turn is iteratively solved for the current temperature prediction.

In a nutshell, a TNN solves the difficult-to-grasp nonlinearity and scheduling-vector-dependency in [quasi-LPV](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Linear_parameter-varying_control) systems, which an LPTN represents.

## Code Structure

The streamlined usage can be seen in the jupyter notebooks, one with tensorflow2 and one with pytorch.
The tf2-version makes heavy use of auxiliary functions and classes declared in `aux`, whereas the pytorch notebook is self-contained and does not import from 'aux'. 
The TNN keras model can be found in [aux/lptn_model](aux/lptn_model.py) as `TNNCell`.

In both frameworks, the TNN is defined as a cell class that is plugged into an outer RNN layer.

Commit message:

update readme for NODE architecture

README.md, after:

# Thermal Neural Networks
This repository demonstrates the usage of thermal neural networks (TNNs) on an electric motor data set.

The TNN is introduced in:
```
@misc{kirchgässner2021_tnn_preprint,
  title={Thermal Neural Networks: Lumped-Parameter Thermal Modeling With State-Space Machine Learning}, 
  author={Wilhelm Kirchgässner and Oliver Wallscheid and Joachim Böcker},
  year={2021},
  eprint={2103.16323},
  archivePrefix={arXiv},
  primaryClass={cs.LG}
}
```

Further, this repository supports and demonstrates the findings around a TNN's generalization to [Neural Ordinary DIfferential Equations](https://arxiv.org/abs/1806.07366) as presented on [IPEC2022](https://www.ipec2022.org/index.html). 
If you want to cite that work, please use
```
@INPROCEEDINGS{kirchgässner_node_ipec2022,
  author={Kirchgässner, Wilhelm and Wallscheid, Oliver and Böcker, Joachim},
  booktitle={2022 International Power Electronics Conference (IPEC-Himeji 2022- ECCE Asia)}, 
  title={Learning Thermal Properties and Temperature Models of Electric Motors with Neural Ordinary Differential Equations}, 
  year={2022},
  volume={},
  number={},
  pages={2746-2753},
  doi={10.23919/IPEC-Himeji2022-ECCE53331.2022.9807209}}
```

The data set is freely available at [Kaggle](https://www.kaggle.com/wkirgsn/electric-motor-temperature) and can be cited as
```
@misc{electric_motor_temp_kaggle,
  title={Electric Motor Temperature},
  url={https://www.kaggle.com/dsv/2161054},
  DOI={10.34740/KAGGLE/DSV/2161054},
  publisher={Kaggle}, 
  author={Wilhelm Kirchgässner and Oliver Wallscheid and Joachim Böcker}, 
  year={2021}}
```

## Topology

![](img/topology.png)

Three function approximators (e.g., multi-layer perceptrons (MLPs)) model the thermal characteristics of an arbitrarily complex component arrangement forming a system of interest.
One outputs thermal conductances, another the inverse thermal capacitances, and the last one the power losses generated within the components.

In contrast to other neural network architectures, a TNN needs at least to know which features are temperatures and which are not.
The TNN's inner cell working is that of [lumped-parameter thermal networks](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lumped-element_model#Thermal_systems) (LPTNs).
A TNN can be interpreted as a hyper network that is parameterizing an LPTN, which in turn is iteratively solved for the current temperature prediction.

In a nutshell, a TNN solves the difficult-to-grasp nonlinearity and scheduling-vector-dependency in [quasi-LPV](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Linear_parameter-varying_control) systems, which an LPTN represents.

## Code Structure

The streamlined usage can be seen in the jupyter notebooks, one with tensorflow2 (TNN) and two with pytorch (TNN and NODE).
The tf2-version makes heavy use of auxiliary functions and classes declared in `aux`, whereas the pytorch notebooks are self-contained and do not import from 'aux'. 
In both frameworks, the TNN is defined as a cell class that is plugged into an outer RNN layer.
